QNX(R) COMMERCIAL SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT

The software and related documentation that you are about to access (the "Software", as further defined below) is offered by QNX Software Systems Limited ("QSS"), an Ontario corporation having offices at 1001 Farrar Road, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K2K 0B3 (ph.: +1-613-591-0931, fax: +1-613-591-3579), to you (either as an individual or on behalf of the entity you represent, provided you are authorized to act on its behalf) for use in accordance with the terms and conditions below.

By answering "I ACCEPT" during the download, installation or activation of the Software, you represent that you have read, understand and agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of this QNX Commercial Software License Agreement, including (as applicable) Schedules A, B, and C (any one or more, this "License"). If you do not accept these terms and conditions then you are not granted a license and are not authorized to download, install, activate, access or use any of the Software. 


TERMS AND CONDITIONS


0.  BACKGROUND.

QSS has developed and licenses a general purpose real-time operating system known as the QNX (R) Neutrino (R) RTOS ("QNX Neutrino RTOS"). Its microkernel architecture provides an extensible operating system framework based on the foundational components of the kernel, system libraries and frameworks. Additional operating system services are implemented by plugging in other software modules (e.g., networking, file systems, etc.). These modules are licensed as part of the base QNX Neutrino RTOS runtime components. When modified or configured to operate on target hardware, the QNX Neutrino RTOS provides a microkernel operating system with advanced memory protection, distributed processing, symmetric multiprocessing, a dynamically upgradeable architecture, and real-time performance.

Other more specialized QNX middleware products (e.g., QNX SDK for Apps and Media, QNX CAR (TM) Platform for Infotainment and QNX Acoustics Products (as identified in the License Guide); any one or more, "QNX Middleware") are made available by QSS as separately licensed products. For the purpose of this License, any one or more of the QNX Neutrino RTOS runtime components, and any runtime components of the QNX Middleware products you have licensed, may be referred to as the "Runtime Components" (as further defined below).

QSS also offers a related set of software development tools known as the QNX (R) Momentics (R) Tool Suite. Developers use the QNX Momentics Tool Suite to modify and configure Runtime Components and to develop applications to run on the QNX Neutrino RTOS. The QNX Momentics Tool Suite includes compilers, debuggers, libraries, header files, utilities, sample source code, test suites, performance optimization tools, etc., within an integrated development environment based on the open Eclipse IDE framework. The QNX Middleware products may also come with supplementary development tool components.  For the purpose of this License any one or more of these QNX Middleware tool components and the QNX Momentics Tool Suite will be considered the "QNX Tools" to the extent you have licensed those products. Any one or more of the Runtime Components and the QNX Tools may be referred to as the "QNX Product Portfolio" (as further defined in the License Guide). 

More detailed QNX Product Portfolio information is available in the corresponding version-specific QNX License Guide published at http://licensing.qnx.com/document-archive/ ("License Guide", which is hereby incorporated into this License), a copy of which can also be found in the file system installation of the Software. The License Guide provides important version-specific information about the nature and scope of license rights granted (or not granted) to you hereunder. For that reason the License Guide should be carefully reviewed. Please contact licensing@qnx.com if you have any questions. 

The QNX Momentics Tool Suite and QNX Neutrino RTOS components (collectively, the "QNX Software Development Platform" or "QNX SDP") are initially delivered together and are licensed either on a named-user or floating-license basis for development purposes under this License. QNX Middleware products are usually delivered separately and may have a different licensing model.  For example, QNX Acoustics Products are licensed for development purposes under this License on a Project (as defined in Section 1 (Definitions) below) basis (see Schedule B (QNX Middleware Addendum) and the License Guide for further details on QNX Middleware licensing). Development licenses for each component of the QNX Product Portfolio are available on either a perpetual (paid-up license) or time limited (subscription) basis, except as noted in Schedule B (QNX Middleware Addendum) (e.g., the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment is licensed for development purposes under this License solely on a subscription basis and generally only for QNX-based automotive development projects). These and other important details about your license rights in the Software are specified in the "Development License Certificate(s)" that QSS sent you when you purchased your Software license(s). Development License Certificates are important documents because they define and authenticate your rights under this License. Please contact licensing@qnx.com if you have lost or misplaced your Development License Certificate(s).

QNX Neutrino RTOS developers typically use their QNX Tools and a subset of the Runtime Components to build an embedded computing system or device ("Target System", as further defined below) by: 

(a) 	developing the necessary code to make the QNX Neutrino RTOS operational on the Target System hardware (i.e., a board support package ("BSP") comprising initial program load ("IPL"), start-up and drivers, various parts of which may be available from QSS or its hardware partners in binary form for supported processors and peripherals or, alternatively, which may be developed from scratch or derived from QSS- or partner-supplied sample source code and/or your own pre-existing code), and

(b) 	integrating Runtime Component object code programs, libraries and utilities with files the developers have generated using their QNX Tools in order to define the system's operational constraints, to tailor its functionality and, if equipped with a graphical user interface, to create its appearance, in order to meet the Target System's design requirements.

Ultimately you will choose a subset of Runtime Components ("Runtime Configuration" as further defined in Schedule C (Runtime Distribution Addendum)) to include in your Target System. Over the Target System's life cycle, QNX Neutrino RTOS developers may elect to upgrade hardware platforms (requiring a repetition of step (a) above) and/or update software components (e.g., by adopting Runtime Component Updates (as defined below, also see Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum)), or by introducing new Runtime Components) in order to enhance the Target System's reliability, performance and functionality. So, it is quite possible that your Target System's Runtime Components will change over time. 

This License allows you to commercially develop Target Systems using the QNX Product Portfolio components you have licensed from QSS, as described in your Development License Certificate(s). It may also be used to create and distribute copies of your Runtime Configuration in or for your Target System (see Schedule C (Runtime Distribution Addendum)), provided that Runtime License Certificates are available for all  Runtime Components in your Runtime Configuration. You can invoke these optional distribution terms and conditions by purchasing the appropriate Runtime License Certificates from QSS, or from an authorized QNX distributor. Schedule C (Runtime Distribution Addendum) does not apply unless and until you purchase Runtime License Certificates from QSS, or an authorized QNX distributor. Each Runtime License Certificate expressly authorizes the distribution of a specified number of copies of a specified Runtime Configuration in or for Target Systems in accordance with the terms of this License. Additional Runtime License Certificates can be purchased as required. Contact an authorized QNX sales representative for more information.

Certain components of the QNX Product Portfolio are available from QSS under the terms and conditions of the Apache License, Version 2.0 ("Apache License"), the Eclipse Public License, or other open source licenses. The open source components and contributions in the Commercially Released Software, and the licenses to which they are subject, are identified in the version-specific License Guide and the corresponding Third Party License Terms List, which is also published at http://licensing.qnx.com/document-archive/ and found in the file system installations of the Software ("Third Party Terms List", which is hereby incorporated into this License).   


1.  DEFINITIONS.   In this License:

"Affiliate" means a person or entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with a party hereto (with "control" meaning ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the entity or, in the case of a non-corporate entity, an equivalent interest).

"Commercially Released Software" means, for a particular version, unmodified Software components that QSS has:
	
	(a) identified in the License Guide and are not defined as Experimental Software; or 

	(b) made generally available as an "official" release and

(i) 	are available to you on myQNX.com, Foundry27(TM) or any other developer portal hosted by QSS (including without limitation “official” release BSPs);

(ii) 	are made available to you for use under this License to address Errors pursuant to Section 14.4 (Remedy for Breach of Limited Warranty of Performance); or 

(iii) 	to the extent specified in the applicable Documentation to be compatible with the balance of your Commercially Released Software components, are made available to you for use under this License during your subscription to: (1) maintenance and support services pursuant to Schedule A (separately referred to as "Standard Support"), or (2) pursuant to a Priority Support Agreement or other enhanced support engagement with QSS. 
	
	It does not include any Experimental Software.

"Damages" means any damages, losses or liabilities finally awarded by a court of competent jurisdiction or amount agreed to be paid in a written settlement agreement. 

"Development License Certificate" means a certificate or record issued by QSS that is provided to you in hard copy or in electronic form (which includes by email) by QSS or by one of its authorized distributors (or pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.1 (Deployment of Software) or Section 20 (Assignment)), that: 

(a) 	contains a unique serial number, 

(b)	identifies the part number(s) of the QNX Product Portfolio component(s) licensed to you for development purposes under this License, 

(c) 	identifies the term of this License, in the case of subscription licenses, and 

(d) 	contains one or more License Keys to unlock the licensed Software during installation on a Development Seat. 

Development License Certificates (and their serial numbers and License Keys) are unique to individual developers, except in the case of Development License Certificates for floating licenses ("Floating Licenses") which may be shared by multiple developers as provided in Section 3(a) or unless otherwise expressly stated herein (see Schedule B (QNX Middleware Addendum)) or in your Development License Certificate. 

"Development Seat" means a named user's workstation ("workstation" means  the named user’s (i) desktop, (ii) laptop and (iii) one other computer) used only by that individual developer to perform software development for Target Systems using the QNX Tools. Named users are identified by the email address they provide as part of the Software installation process. 

"Documentation" means developer user manuals, operating instructions, installation guides, help files, in printed or electronic form generally made available to QSS’s customers for use with the Software for development purposes (including but not limited to reference specifications - e.g. POSIX, read-me files, installation notes, and release notes that are provided in or for the Software), the applicable License Guide(s), Third Party Terms List(s) and Development License Certificate(s).

"Experimental Software" means any Software that is: 

(a) 	experimental, alpha, beta, demo, trial, unsupported or other components made available to you by QSS for use under this License, whether: 

(i) 	on an early access basis as described in Section 14.2 (Experimental Software),

(ii) 	available from myQNX.com, Foundry27 or any other developer portal hosted by QSS and is not identified as an “official release”, 

(iii)  set forth in the License Guide as 3rd Party Licensed Code that is provided for evaluation and/or demonstration purposes only (including without limitation 3rd Party Reference Applications), or 

(iv) 	otherwise so identified and made available by QSS for use under this License; 

(b) 	a deliverable made available to you by QSS for use under this License pursuant to Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum), or an Engineering Service Agreement, Custom Support Plan Agreement, Priority Support Agreement or other custom engineering engagement and/or enhanced support engagement, that is not identified by QSS as an "official" release; 

(c) 	made available to you by QSS in Source Code form for use under this License (including but not limited to HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Shell script, Python or WebGL code) that has been modified by you or on your behalf; and 

(d) 	used on hardware, or combinations of Commercially Released Software used with other software components (including but not limited to Software components from other versions or releases), that have not been documented by QSS to be compatible.

"Foundry27" means the QNX developer portal hosted by QSS at http://community.qnx.com. 

"License Key" means a unique set of numbers, characters and/or symbols issued by QSS in a Development License Certificate to unlock licensed components of the QNX Product Portfolio during installation on a Development Seat.

"Project" means a team of developers at one or more sites working cooperatively to develop a single product, or a set of product variants that: 

(a) 	use the same Runtime Configuration(s) (including but not limited to the same BSP) and substantially the same application software stack; and 

(b)	deliver substantially the same end user feature set. A project for the development of a standard platform will initially be considered a single Project; however, each customer (internal or otherwise) that adopts the platform for further development will be considered a separate Project.

"QSS and/or its Representatives" means any one or more of QSS, its Affiliates (including but not limited to BlackBerry Limited), or their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, suppliers or Contractors.

"Runtime Component" means the code that is executable by a computer after processing or linking but without compilation or assembly, of any component of the Software that is intended to be integrated into and distributed as an integral part of a Target System, as described in the License Guide or in other Documentation.  Unless expressly authorized by QSS in writing, it does not include any 3rd Party Licensed Code or any other demo or trial Software components.  

"Software" means any computer code (in whatever form), and its associated interfaces and Documentation, included in any component of the QNX Product Portfolio for which you have been issued a corresponding Development License Certificate by QSS or an authorized QNX distributor, for use under this License. It also includes: 

(a) 	patches, Updates and other deliverables made available to you by QSS for use under this License pursuant to Section 14.4 (Remedy for Breach of Limited Warranty of Performance), or pursuant to your subscription to Standard Support (see Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum), or under a Priority Support Agreement or other enhanced support engagement with QSS; 

(b) 	deliverables made available to you by QSS for use under this License pursuant to an Engineering Service Agreement or other custom engineering agreement; and

(c) 	experimental, alpha, beta, demo (including 3rd Party Licensed Code), trial, unsupported or other components made available to you by QSS for use under this License (including at myQNX.com, Foundry27 or any other developer portal hosted by QSS).

"Source Code" means the human readable form of computer software code, including but not limited to any source code comments, design documentation, and corresponding header files, build scripts and make files. It includes without limitation HTML, JavaScript, Cascading Style Sheet ("CSS"), Shell script, Python and WebGL code.

"Standards" means any or all of the following:  

(a) 	any industry standard or recommendation, including de facto standards and recommendations, whether or not such standards or recommendations have been formally established or promulgated by any governmental or industrial standard setting forum or similar body, including, without limitation, any standards or recommendations of Car Connectivity Consortium, DLNA, ITU, IEEE (including without limitation, IEEE 802.11 local area network standards:  IEEE 802.11a, 802.11b, 802.11g, 802.11n, 802.11ac and any future evolutions thereof), ETSI, ISO, MPEG, CSS, DVD, DivX, Dolby, AVC/H.264, ATM Forum, Frame Relay Forum, SMPTE, ATSE, GSM, IETF, etc.; and 

(b) 	the specifications for GSM/GPRS/EDGE (and if a device operates on any other network, the specifications for the corresponding standards for that network) adopted as a standard by ETSI, or 3GPP, 3GPP2, and/or any other relevant telecommunications standards body and any de facto standards imposed by a major operator of public subscription systems for in-country requirements (e.g. frequency spectrum availability, interconnection with pre-existing telephony networks, etc.). 

"Target System" means any hardware or software product for embedded devices into which Runtime Components have been wholly or partially integrated that: 

(a) 	significantly enhances the function and value of the Software, and 

(b) 	has substantially different principal purposes than those of the Software and of other components of the QNX Product Portfolio.

"Update(s)" means any new version of a Software component that provides error corrections (separately referred to as a "Patch"), functional enhancements and/or performance improvements, which are issued in Medial (6.x) or Minor (6.x.x) Software updates, or in any intervening maintenance releases (including but not limited to service packs and patches) to Commercially Released Software.  Unless or until an Update becomes Commercially Released Software it will be considered Experimental Software. 

"you" means the individual who, or entity that, accepted and agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License.


2.  DEVELOPMENT LICENSE.   Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, and to your payment when due of all applicable license fees (including but not limited to renewal fees for any subscription-based licenses) specified on QSS's (or its authorized distributor's) invoice for the QNX Product Portfolio component development license(s) you have purchased ("Invoice", which is hereby incorporated into this License), QSS hereby grants to you a limited, non-exclusive, personal, non-sublicensable, non-transferable (except as provided in Section 20 (Assignment)) and indivisible license for the specific activities and purposes authorized in Sections 3 (Authorized Activities) and 4 (Authorized Purposes) below:

(a) 	under copyrights owned or sub-licensable by QSS, to reproduce the Software and to modify and/or supplement the Software made available to you by QSS in Source Code form (except for HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Shell script, Python and WebGL code that the License Guide or other Documentation expressly states is not to be modified); and 

(b) 	under patent claims owned or sub-licensable by QSS without QSS or any QSS Affiliate having to make any additional payment to any third party, and that are embodied in the Software as delivered by QSS, to make and use the Software and authorized derivative works of the Source Code. 

Certain features of the Software may require additional patent or copyright licenses not included in this License, which include but are not limited to patent licenses relating to the implementation of Standards. For Commercially Released Software these cases, other than patent licenses relating to the implementation of Standards, are noted in the License Guide and include but are not limited to features of the QNX SDK for Apps and Media and QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment (e.g., audio and video codecs) and features obtained from other software or hardware vendors (e.g., drivers for devices such as wireless modems). QSS only licenses to you the patent and copyright rights that it owns or that it can sub-license under the terms and conditions of this License without QSS or any QSS Affiliate having to make any additional payment to any third party. It is your responsibility to identify and secure any other license rights necessary to make, use, import or sell any product or system that contains or uses any Software that QSS has indicated may require additional patent or copyright rights (also see Section 16 (Third Party Licenses)).  

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Software license granted to you has been previously terminated, then no license to use the Software is granted to you under this License. In such case you should contact licensing@qnx.com. 


3.  AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.   The Software is licensed only for the specific development activities below for purposes listed in Section 4 (Authorized Purposes):

(a) 	installing the Software on, and following normal backup and archiving practices for, one individual developer's Development Seat per License Key, unless otherwise expressly stated in this Agreement (see Schedule B (QNX Middleware Addendum) or in your Development License Certificate. If you have one or more Floating Licenses then you are authorized to install the Software on multiple developers' Development Seats within a single business division, provided that each Floating License is only used by one developer at a time. You will be required to use Floating License management software (supplied by QSS) for host development platforms for which such software is available. If your Floating License Key was originally issued for QNX Product Portfolio components released prior to QNX SDP v. 6.5.0 (June, 2010), and you are entering into this License in order to update your Software, you may elect to adopt the Floating License Key terms and conditions of this License in place of your original QNX development license terms and conditions, provided and for so long as you pay to QSS annual Standard Support fees at the rate that applies to Development Seats for the current version of the Software with Floating License Keys; 

(b) 	using and compiling the Software on such authorized Development Seats in order to create, link, install and use Runtime Components, authorized derivative works of Software provided in Source Code form, and new or existing applications or modules as required to develop, evaluate, test, maintain and/or support Target Systems; and

(c) 	installing and using Runtime Components, or software created pursuant to Section 3(b), on up to five (5) Target Systems per corresponding License Key in order to develop, evaluate, test, maintain, support and/or demonstrate and promote Target Systems. Additional Runtime Component licenses for Target Systems may be obtained from QSS or its authorized distributors.

4.  AUTHORIZED PURPOSES.   The Software is licensed only for use for the specific purposes below:

(a) 	using the Software to develop, evaluate, test, maintain, and/or demonstrate and promote Target Systems or applications or modules that extend the QNX Product Portfolio components that you have developed or licensed. This includes determining the suitability of Runtime Components for use in Target Systems; conducting exploratory development or proof-of-concept prototyping of Target Systems; extending hardware or peripheral support for Runtime Components; developing new applications for or porting existing applications to the QNX Neutrino RTOS using QNX Tools; and demonstrating and promoting your Target Systems to others, provided that you do not leave copies with third parties. It does not include your use of the Software in a Target System as an end user (Runtime Component licenses for Target Systems may be obtained from QSS or its authorized distributors); and

(b)  	using the Software to work with other authorized and licensed QNX Product Portfolio developers to facilitate teamwork in academic development labs or in group projects.


5.  DEPLOYMENT OF SOFTWARE AND AUDITS OF SOFTWARE USE.

5.1 	DEPLOYMENT OF SOFTWARE.   You may deploy the Software, and allocate corresponding Development License Certificates for each Development Seat, for use in accordance with the terms and conditions of this License to: 

(a) 	your employees; 

(b) 	your Affiliates for use by their employees; and 

(c)	your consultants, independent contractors, representatives or other agents ("Contractors"), and/or your Affiliates' Contractors, for use by their employees, but only to the extent and for so long as they provide software development services on your behalf (or on your Affiliates' behalf) in compliance with the terms and conditions of this License. 

You may also re-deploy the Software (and associated Development License Certificates), from one developer to another, as developers and projects change. If a developer's Development Seat (and Development License Certificate(s)) is re-deployed pursuant to this Section, then thereafter the re-deployed Development Seat (and Development License Certificate(s)) or any other Development Seat (and Development License Certificates(s)) you have licensed (or purchased) may not be re-deployed to the formerly-licensed developer for a period of six (6) months. See Section 20 (Assignment) for assigning this License.


5.2	RESPONSIBILITY.  All acts or omissions of your Affiliates, Contractors and/or of any of your Affiliates’ Contractors in relation to this License will be deemed to be your acts or omissions. You will always remain responsible to QSS for the full performance by your Affiliates and by any Contractors of the terms and conditions of this License, including but not limited to limiting the number of copies of Software installed and used. 

5.3 	LICENSED USER INFORMATION.   In order to install and/or activate the Software certain machine-specific information as well as personal information about the licensed developer ("Licensed User Information") is sent to QSS at the time of activation and/or periodically thereafter. Licensed User Information may include but is not limited to email address, username, software identification numbers, MAC addresses, UUIDs, IP addresses, identification numbers set by manufacturers of your hardware and/or identification numbers related to your host operating system. QSS may use Licensed User Information for the purposes of verifying compliance with the terms and conditions of this License, enforcing any reporting or audit-related provisions in this License (including but not limited to those in Sections 5.4 (Audits of Software Use) and 5.5), and verifying compliance with the terms and conditions of any other agreements between you and QSS relating to software provided by or on behalf of QSS, but QSS will otherwise treat any personal information elements of the Licensed User Information as your Confidential Information pursuant to Section 13 (Confidential Information).  

5.4 	AUDITS OF SOFTWARE USE.  QSS may require from time to time, upon at least thirty (30) days' prior notice, that you provide a written report that includes without limitation: 

	•	the email address of the current named user for each Development Seat, 

(b) 	the physical and computer address(es) where the Software is and/or has been deployed, 

(c) 	a description of the Software, including but not limited to the corresponding version(s) being used, the projects for which the Software is being and/or has been used, and the number of Development Seats that are being and/or have been updated in each year of use, 

(d) 	certification that the components of the QNX Product Portfolio that you have licensed have been installed and used (or used concurrently in the case of Floating Licenses) only on the authorized number of Development Seats and Target Systems, and have been used only for authorized projects and by authorized developers, 

(e) 	certification that Updates have only been used on Development Seats in accordance with Standard Support or other entitlements expressly authorized by this License, and 

(f) 	confirmation that Software copies have been destroyed in accordance with Section 17.3 (Implications of Termination) upon the termination of any of your license rights, or in accordance with Section 5.1 (Deployment of Software) upon re-deployment of that Software. 

You (or an authorized signatory if you are a legal entity) agree to sign the reports to confirm their completeness and accuracy. QSS may also require you to complete and return a compliance certificate on an annual basis. 

5.5 	You will maintain accurate records regarding all activities relating to this License for a period of six (6) years after the end of the year to which they relate. QSS reserves the right to audit (or have an independent third party audit) your books and records, upon at least twenty (20) days’ prior notice and at its expense, to determine your compliance with the terms and conditions of this License, including but not limited to the information called for in Section 5.4 (a)-(f), and in Section B-7 (Audits of Software Use) and C-12 (Records & Audits) of the Schedules B (QNX Middleware Addendum) and C (Runtime Distribution Addendum) respectively. The audit will be conducted under the confidentiality provisions of Section 13 (Confidential Information).

5.6 	Audits will not occur and reports will not be requested more than once each calendar year unless discrepancies are discovered or unless QSS presents reasonable evidence (including but not limited to evidence based on Licensed User Information or based on the response or a non-response to the requirement set forth under Section 5.4 (Audits of Software Use)) that you are not complying with the terms and conditions of this License. If an audit or report reveals use of the Software by you outside the terms and conditions of this License, you agree to correct any payment errors immediately by providing an adjustment payment, which will include interest on the overdue amount at a rate equal to fifteen percent (15%) per annum compounded monthly or the highest rate permitted by law, whichever is lower, of the outstanding payment from the date due until the date paid. You will also reimburse QSS for all reasonable costs and expenses related to such audit or report, in addition to any other liabilities you may incur as a result of such non-compliance.


6.  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.   You will not, and will not assist, permit or enable any other party to:

(a) 	decompile, disassemble, decrypt, extract, unbundle, translate, or otherwise attempt or assist others to reverse engineer any part of the Software except as permitted by an open source license applying to a specific part of the Software, or except to the extent that QSS is expressly precluded by law from prohibiting these activities. Except for published Source Code files that are expressly identified by QSS as open source software, the Software IS NOT OPEN SOURCE. To the extent permitted by applicable open source license(s), any License Guide/Third Party Terms List or other references identifying applicable open source license terms for the Software apply only to the original open source code used by or for QSS or its licensors and not to any pre-existing code modified using or combined with such open source code, or any new interests in derivative works created from such open source code;

(b)	alter, remove, or cover any trademark, logo, proprietary or licensing notices, labels, or marks in or on any part of the Software. You agree to exercise reasonable efforts to ensure that all whole or partial copies of the Software bear the same notices, labels, and marks contained in or on the original Software;

(c) 	allow shared use of: 

(i) 	Software on Development Seats, 

(ii) 	Development License Certificates, Runtime License Certificates, License Keys, Floating Licenses (except as expressly allowed in Section 3(a)), Project Licenses (except as expressly allowed in Section B-4 (QNX Acoustics Products - Project License) of Schedule B (QNX Middleware Addendum)), or 

(iii) 	Standard Support services or entitlements, including but not limited to sharing Updates with developers who are using Development Seats for which the required Standard Support fees have not been paid, or updating Target Systems (except pursuant to Section A-3.3 (Distribution) of Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum));

(d)	disclose or distribute to any others Development License Certificates, Runtime License Certificates, License Keys (except as expressly permitted in Sections 3(a) and 5.1 (Deployment of Software)) or myQNX.com account passwords, use unauthorized Development License Certificates, Runtime License Certificates, License Keys or myQNX.com account passwords, or circumvent the key activation or key management mechanisms contained in the Software, at Foundry27 or at the myQNX.com site. You agree to treat Development License Certificates and all associated License Keys and passwords as QSS Confidential Information pursuant to Section 13 (Confidential Information); 

(e) 	directly or indirectly export, import, use, transfer or re-export the Software, except in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations of the relevant government authorities. You understand that the import or export of the Software may be regulated by some governments due to the Software's encryption capabilities. You hereby represent that: (i) to the best of your knowledge you are eligible to receive the Software  under applicable law; (ii) you will not use the Software in the development, production,  handling, maintenance, storage, detection, identification or dissemination of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons or their missile delivery systems, or of materials or equipment that could be used in such weapons or their missile delivery systems, or resell or export to anyone or any entity involved in such activity; and (iii) you will ensure that authorized users use the Software in accordance with the foregoing restrictions. You acknowledge that any export classification in respect of the Software made by QSS shall not be construed as a representation or warranty regarding the proper export classification for the Software or whether an export license or other documentation is required for your exportation of the Software. You accept sole responsibility to ensure that your export, import and use of the Software comply with all applicable laws; 

(f) 	use the Software in any application in which death, serious personal injury, or severe physical, environmental or property damage is a foreseeable consequence of Software use or failure ("High-Risk Applications"), including but not limited to in the monitoring, operation or control of nuclear facilities, mass transit systems, aircraft navigation, flight control or communications systems, air traffic control systems, weapon systems, and life-support machines. QSS EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY OR CONDITION OF FITNESS FOR HIGH-RISK APPLICATIONS; or  

(g) 	use the Software to pursue any formal qualification, certification, or designation for the Software unless it is for a specific end user device or unless QSS has provided its express written consent.


7.  PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS.   You agree not to directly or indirectly grant, or purport to grant, to any third party any rights or immunities under QSS's or its licensors' intellectual property rights in the Software that would subject such intellectual property to an open source license or scheme in which there is or could be interpreted to be a requirement that as a condition of use, modification and/or distribution, the Software be: 

(a) 	disclosed or distributed in Source Code form, 

(b) 	licensed for the purpose of making derivative works, or 

(c) 	redistributable at no charge. 


8.  THIRD PARTY RESTRICTIONS.   Components of the QNX Product Portfolio contain elements of third party software that are licensed to QSS (and are therefore provided to you) for limited purposes and under terms and conditions that differ from those of this License. Such licenses include but are not limited to:

(a)  	the Eclipse Public License ("EPL"), GNU Public License ("GPL"), Lesser GNU Public License ("LGPL"), Mozilla Public License ("MPL"), and other open source licenses; 

(b)  	third party licenses that impose restrictions on use, copying, authorized purposes, etc. and/or supplemental obligations. Examples of affected products include but are not limited to: board support packages or individual device drivers that are limited to use with specific hardware manufacturers' products, and components of the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment; and/or 

(c)  	third party licenses that impose restrictions that limit use of the Software for a limited time and/or to use solely for demonstration and internal evaluation/trial purposes.

Those third party license terms, and notices that those third party licensors require to be provided, are set out for: 

(i) 	Commercially Released Software in the License Guide and/or the corresponding Third Party Terms List, and 

(ii) 	Experimental Software at the applicable download site, in or with the agreement or authorization it was provided under, or in the corresponding Source Code (e.g., see 3rd Party Licensed Code). 

You are solely responsible for ensuring that limited-use software is not used outside of the limits stated. 

Updated License Guides and Third Party Terms Lists may be issued for each new version of the Software. You are responsible for reviewing and complying with such new documents if you chose to adopt the associated Software Updates.  License Guides and/or corresponding Third Party Terms Lists may also be updated from time to time to correct oversights or errors. If you cannot accept the new documents then you are not authorized to use the Software Update(s). Please check http://licensing.qnx.com/document-archive/ to ensure that you have the most up-to-date information. You are also responsible for reviewing any available Source Code, corresponding Documentation and download site notices for Experimental Software for any supplementary terms and conditions or other third party licensing considerations that apply. You acknowledge and agree that QSS can disclose to its third party licensors that you have received a copy of their technology.


9.  OWNERSHIP AND RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.   The Software is protected by intellectual property laws including but not limited to copyright laws, both locally and internationally. The Software is not sold but is licensed to you on the terms and conditions set forth in this License. QSS and its licensors retain all rights, title and interests in and to the Software (including but not limited to any elements of the Software embodied in derivative works you create, and any elements of the Software that are derivative works created by or for QSS or its licensors from or using open source software) and reserve all rights in the Software not expressly licensed by this License, including but not limited to copyrights, patent rights and rights in Confidential Information. Subject to all underlying rights of QSS and its licensors in the Software, and to the terms and conditions of this License, all other rights, title and interests in and to any authorized derivative works of the Software and other software that you may independently develop pursuant to this License will be retained by you. No trademarks or service marks of QSS or its licensors are licensed by this License, and you understand and agree that QSS trademarks or service mark may not be applied to your goods or services without the express written permission of QSS.


10.  FEEDBACK.  QSS welcomes suggestions, comments or other feedback about its products and services (e.g., regarding their utility, reliability, or performance) and your user experience with the Software, as well as any bug-fixes, features, functionality or enhancements you would like to see in future versions ("Feedback"). You agree that all Feedback is and will be given entirely voluntarily and, even if designated as confidential, will not create any confidentiality obligations for QSS. You represent and warrant that you will not provide any Feedback that you know or have reason to believe might infringe any third party intellectual property rights or misappropriate any third party confidential information or trade secrets. Except as expressly stated above, any Feedback you provide will be considered to be provided "as is" without any warranty or condition of any kind, whether express or implied. If you require QSS to enter into an intellectual property license to use any Feedback then, either at the time of providing your Feedback or within ten (10) business days thereafter, you will notify the person to whom you are providing the Feedback and will provide notice to QSS's licensing group at licensing@qnx.com. In the absence of such notification you hereby grant to QSS a worldwide, non-exclusive, perpetual, irrevocable, directly and indirectly sub-licensable, paid up and royalty free right and license to exploit the Feedback in any manner and for any purpose including without limitation to make (or have made), develop (or have developed), modify (or have modified), reproduce (or have reproduced), use (or have used), import or export (or have imported or exported), offer for sale or sell (or have offered for sale or have sold), license (or authorize others to license), and distribute or otherwise dispose of (directly and indirectly) as part of any of QSS's or its Affiliates' business, technology, products or services, and to grant others the right to do any of the foregoing. 


11.  U.S. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS.   Notwithstanding any agreement with a third party or any provision of law, regulation or policy, if you are an agency of the government of the United States of America, then your rights in respect of the Software shall not exceed the rights provided under this License, unless expressly agreed upon by QSS in a written agreement between you and QSS and signed by a signing officer of QSS. 


12.  SUPPORT.   Support from QSS is available at extra cost under the terms and conditions of Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum) or pursuant to a separate Priority Support Agreement or other enhanced support engagement with QSS.  Contact an authorized QNX sales representative for more information (http://www.qnx.com/company/contact/). 


13.  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. 

13.1 	In this License: 

"Confidential Information" means any information in any form or medium: 

(a) 	that is proprietary or confidential to the disclosing party ("Discloser"), its Affiliates, or to their respective customers, suppliers or other business partners, including without limitation information that is embedded in or related to Discloser's products or services, or to the development, testing or commercial exploitation thereof; 

(b) 	that is either specifically identified as confidential prior to or at the time of its disclosure, or would generally be considered confidential in the embedded software industry; and

(c) 	that is directly or indirectly disclosed to the receiving party ("Recipient") by or on behalf of Discloser, or to which Recipient is otherwise provided access by Discloser or on Discloser's behalf. 

QSS Confidential Information includes without limitation: 

(i) 	Software Source Code; 

(ii) 	Experimental Software, in any form, that has been made available to you at a password restricted site, including but not limited to the myQNX.com download center and password protected parts of Foundry 27; 

(iii) 	myQNX.com and Foundry27 user account information, access ID's and passwords; 

(iv) 	Development License Certificates and License Keys; and 

(v) 	any benchmarking information for Experimental Software generated by or for you. 

"Trade Secret(s)" means Confidential Information that is proprietary technology information (including but not limited to Source Code, algorithms, formulae, methods and processes), the disclosure of which to unauthorized third parties could cause Discloser to suffer a significant loss of competitive and/or commercial advantage in its markets.

13.2	DISCLOSURE, USE AND REPRODUCTION.   Except as specifically provided herein, Recipient will hold all Confidential Information in confidence in accordance with the terms of this License. Recipient shall use and reproduce Confidential Information only to the extent reasonably required to fulfill the purpose of this License. Recipient may provide access to Confidential Information to, and authorize the use and reproduction of Confidential Information by, Recipient's employees, Recipient's Affiliates for use by their employees, and Recipient's Contractors or Recipient's Affiliates' Contractors for use by their employees, but in each case only as reasonably required to fulfill the purpose of this License, and provided that: 

(a) 	all such persons have a need to know the Confidential Information and have entered into confidentiality agreements with terms and conditions that afford no less protection to the Confidential Information than the terms and conditions of this License; and 

(b) 	all acts or omissions of such persons will be deemed to be Recipient's acts or omissions. 

Recipient will always remain responsible to Discloser for the full performance of the terms and conditions of this Section 13 (Confidential Information) by all persons to whom Recipient directly or indirectly discloses Discloser's Confidential Information.

13.3 	OTHER DISCLOSURES.   In addition to the disclosure rights in Section 13.2 (Disclosure, Use and Reproduction), Recipient may disclose Confidential Information if and only to the extent: 

(a) 	it is required to do so by law, provided Recipient gives Discloser sufficient notice to enable it to seek an order limiting or precluding such disclosure, or 

(b) 	an authorized signatory of Discloser provides Discloser's explicit prior written authorization.

13.4 	STANDARD OF CARE.   Recipient shall use a reasonable degree of care to prevent the unauthorized use, reproduction or disclosure of Confidential Information, which care shall not be less than the degree of care that Recipient uses to protect its own Confidential Information of a similar nature. 

13.5	SECURITY FOR SOURCE CODE.   You must store any copies of Software Source Code on computers and/or networks that are secured by controls employed by you for materials reasonably considered to be Trade Secrets or otherwise highly confidential.

13.6	EXCLUSIONS.   Information that Recipient can establish: 

(a) 	is presently known or becomes known to Recipient or its authorized disclosees from an independent source without obligations of confidence, 

(b) 	is in or enters the public domain after the date of initial disclosure to Recipient through no fault or act of Recipient or its Affiliates, or their Contractors, 

(c) 	was independently developed by or on behalf of Recipient or its authorized disclosees, or 

(d) 	is Feedback provided pursuant to Section 10 (Feedback), 

shall not be considered Confidential Information under this License. 

13.7	CONFIDENTIALITY PERIOD.   Recipient's duties with respect to Confidential Information under this License will expire five (5) years after the end of this License (except for Trade Secrets, which shall remain subject to the terms of this License for so long as they constitute Trade Secrets). 

13.8	RETURN OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.   Upon termination of this License, and upon Discloser's written request, Recipient shall promptly return all Confidential Information received from Discloser (including without limitation all copies thereof and any summaries of orally disclosed information in Recipient's or its authorized disclosees' possession or control) or will certify through an authorized signatory of Recipient that all such Confidential Information has been destroyed. Failure of the Discloser to make such request shall not entitle Recipient to make any further use of Confidential Information, or otherwise extend Recipient's rights after termination of this License, and Recipient specifically agrees to cease any further use of Discloser's Confidential Information. Any electronic copies made as part of Recipient's standard backup and archival practices shall be excluded from the obligations of this Section; however, this License shall continue to apply to such Confidential Information, including but not limited to any restored copies thereof. The provisions of this Section shall survive termination of this License for any reason. Recipient may retain one copy of Discloser's Confidential Information in the confidential, restricted access files of its legal department for use only to prove compliance with the terms of this License.

13.9 	REMEDIES.   Recipient acknowledges and agrees that: 

(a) 	the Confidential Information has been developed at significant cost and has important commercial value to Discloser, its Affiliates or to their respective customers, suppliers or other business partners; 

(b) 	knowledge of all or any part of the Confidential Information may constitute insider information under securities laws or yield a competitive advantage over others not having such knowledge; and 

(c) 	disclosure or inappropriate use of Confidential Information could cause Discloser irreparable harm and that therefore Discloser will have the right to seek, in addition to any of its other rights and remedies, injunctive relief for any violation of this License without posting bond, or by posting bond at the lowest amount required by law.

13.10	RESIDUALS.  Nothing in this License will be interpreted as precluding any representative of either of the parties or its Affiliates from making use of his/her general knowledge and skills in connection with other projects being performed on behalf of his/her employer, even if such general knowledge and skills have been furthered by his/her having access to the Confidential Information exchanged under this License. The confidentiality obligations of this License will not apply to Residual Information, where "Residual Information" means general technical, non-public knowledge, experience, know-how or information in a non-tangible form that is retained in the unaided memories of representatives, to whom Confidential Information is disclosed under this License, where such individuals are not consciously aware that the information forms part of the Confidential Information. A representative’s memory will be considered to be unaided if they have not intentionally memorized Confidential Information for the purpose of retaining and subsequently using or disclosing it. The parties each acknowledge and agree that this Residual Information exception is intended only to alleviate the possibility of inadvertent breach of the obligations of this Section 13 (Confidential Information).



14. LIMITED WARRANTIES AND INDEMNITY.

14.1	BACKGROUND.   The Runtime Components comprise parts of a general purpose modular real-time operating system that is provided for use in a variety of vertical markets, on a range of hardware platforms and for a diverse set of Target Systems. You will select a subset of these modules for use in your unique hardware and software environment to implement certain desired functionality and performance characteristics. Ultimately, you may find that you cannot achieve your desired results. While QSS is committed to providing a versatile and reliable product, it does not warrant that the Software will function in accordance with its Documentation in every combination of hardware platform, software environment and software configuration. You acknowledge that errors are likely to be encountered when the Software is used in your particular application. You therefore accept responsibility for satisfying yourself that the Software is suitable for your intended use. This includes conducting rigorous testing of the Software, in combination with your derivative works and value-added software application(s), on your target hardware platform. It also includes thorough hazard and risk analysis and risk mitigation at the system level to determine whether faults could impact the functional safety of your Target System. The system design, system validation and the decision to release Target Systems are all matters solely within your control. These are decisions that can fundamentally impact the functional safety of the system being deployed, over its entire life cycle. QSS offers Standard Support, custom support plans and custom engineering services, under separate agreements, to help developers identify and solve particular Software implementation and integration issues.

14.2	EXPERIMENTAL SOFTWARE.   QSS makes Experimental Software available to you primarily at the Foundry27 web site, although other delivery mechanisms may be used from time to time. The myQNX.com download center is QSS's primary on-line source for Commercially Released Software updates, although some exceptions may apply.
	
For example, projects on Foundry27 may post experimental, alpha and beta builds for components that may be included in upcoming commercial releases; whereas, Software updates that include the commercially released versions of such components are made available from the myQNX.com download center. Experimental Software from QSS, including but not limited to unsupported BSPs, drivers and sample Source Code, as well as trial tool and runtime components, are usually made available on Foundry27. If third party distribution restrictions prohibit Foundry27 postings, then QSS may have to offer certain Experimental Software as myQNX.com downloads. 

You acknowledge that you must always review any available Source Code, corresponding Documentation (including but not limited to new License Guides, Third Party Terms Lists and release notes) and download site notices to confirm the release status and any supplementary terms and conditions or other third party licensing considerations relating to Foundry27 and myQNX.com downloads (see Section 8 (Third Party Restrictions)).  

QSS offers access to experimental, alpha and beta builds in order to give the QNX developer community the earliest possible access to the latest QNX Product Portfolio technology and bug-fixes. Other Experimental Software is offered as a means of accelerating your development by leveraging additional source or binary code.   The form and nature of Experimental Software may change without prior notice to you and future versions of Experimental Software may be incompatible with developments on previous versions.  

You acknowledge that QSS may stop (permanently or temporarily) providing the Experimental Software (or any features within the Experimental Software) to you at QSS’s sole discretion, without prior notice.  You should also be aware that significant changes, such as changes to or elimination of functionality or APIs, may be made to subsequent releases. 

Many developers will migrate during their development cycle from QSS's Experimental Software to corresponding Commercially Released Software as it becomes available. Others may decide to ship Experimental Software after thoroughly testing the stability of such code and/or assessing the maturity of any milestone builds.  

EXPERIMENTAL SOFTWARE MAY HAVE KNOWN DEFICIENCIES, MAY NOT HAVE BEEN FULLY OPTIMIZED AND TESTED, MAY NOT BE FULLY SUPPORTED BY QSS AND MAY BE UNRELIABLE. EXPERIMENTAL SOFTWARE IS MADE AVAILABLE TO YOU STRICTLY ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND. IN NO EVENT WILL QSS AND/OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES BE LIABLE UNDER ANY CAUSE OF ACTION WHATSOEVER FOR DAMAGES RESULTING FROM THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE ANY EXPERIMENTAL SOFTWARE. 

14.3	LIMITED WARRANTY OF PERFORMANCE.   QSS warrants to you for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of the initial Invoice issued to you pursuant to this License, that the Commercially Released Software licensed to you under this License, that is identified as Type I Software and qualifies for “Full” support in the applicable “Support Provided” column in the License Guide, will be free of Errors. An "Error" means when the Software, when used in accordance with the associated Documentation on one or more of the applicable "Reference Platforms" identified in the License Guide, fails to materially behave the way the Documentation says it should. Software will be presumed to be free of Errors unless the error or problem can be reproduced on a Reference Platform and the error or problem does not result from modifications to, or incorrect or improper use of, the Software. 

14.4	REMEDY FOR BREACH OF LIMITED WARRANTY OF PERFORMANCE.   Your sole remedy and QSS's sole obligation for any breach of the warranty of Section 14.3 (Limited Warranty of Performance) will be, at QSS's option, either to: 

(a) 	provide you with a free explanation, workaround or Update that allows the Software to be used free of Errors; or 

(b) 	terminate this License pursuant to Section 17 (Term, Subscription Renewal & Termination) and, upon confirmation that you have complied with your obligations under this License, to provide you with a refund of any license fees that you paid to QSS or its authorized distributor pursuant to this License.

14.5	MEDIA WARRANTY AND REMEDY.   QSS warrants to you for a period of ninety (90) days from the date of the initial Invoice issued to you pursuant to this License, that any tangible media that QSS used to deliver the Software will be free from defects in material and workmanship under normal use. QSS is not responsible for media defects that result from accident or abuse. Your sole remedy for any breach of this media warranty will be to receive replacement media.

14.6	INDEMNITY AND EXCLUSIONS.   Subject to the limitations of Section 15 (Limitation of Liability), if a claim is brought against you for Damages caused by the infringement of any third party copyrights or patents, or the misappropriation of trade secrets, arising out of your use, development, distribution or sale of Commercially Released Software under the terms and conditions of this License (any one or more, "Infringement Claims") then QSS agrees to defend you against such Infringement Claims, and to indemnify and hold you harmless from resulting Damages and reasonable costs and expenses incurred (including but not limited to reasonable lawyers' fees and disbursements), provided that you: 

(a) 	promptly notify QSS in writing of such Infringement Claims, 

(b) 	provide QSS with sole control of the defense and/or settlement thereof, 

(c) 	furnish to QSS on request all relevant information in your possession or control for such defense, 

(d) 	cooperate with and provide such assistance, at QSS's expense, in the defense of such Infringement Claims as reasonably requested by QSS, and 

(e) 	do not admit any such Infringement Claims and/or make any payments with respect to any such Infringement Claims without QSS's prior written consent. 

Expressly excluded from this indemnity are any assertions of: 

(i) 	copyright infringement or trade secret misappropriation based upon the use, reproduction, performance or distribution of any components of: (1) Experimental Software, (2) Software identified in the License Guide, or otherwise by QSS in the course of making the Software available to you, as Type III, or (3) Software that have been modified, supplemented or combined with other software, hardware or systems, where the Software on its own would not infringe; and 

(ii) 	patent infringement based upon the making, using, importing or selling of any components of: 

(1) 	Experimental Software, 

(2) 	Software that have been identified in the License Guide, or otherwise by QSS in the course of making the Software available to you, as Type II or Type III, 

(3) 	Software that have been identified in the License Guide, or otherwise by QSS in the course of making the Software available to you, as requiring additional patent rights not included in this License, 

(4) 	Software that have been modified, supplemented, or combined with other software, hardware or systems, where the Software on its own would not infringe, or 

(5) 	Software that infringe any Essential Patent. 

In this Section "Essential Patent" means any patent or patent application which is necessarily infringed in order to use, make, sell, export, import or otherwise distribute a product, apparatus, software or other item that complies with a Standard, which patent or patent application would not have been infringed but for the compliance with such Standard, where, for the purpose of this Section, a patent or patent application is necessarily infringed because it is not commercially reasonable to implement a standard without infringing a claim of such patent or patent application because of the lack of a commercially reasonable non-infringing implementation.

14.7	REMEDIES FOR INDEMNIFIED CLAIMS.   If QSS reasonably believes that one or more of the indemnified acts in Section 14.6 (Indemnity and Exclusions) have occurred or may occur, QSS will, at its sole expense (subject to the limitations of Section 15 (Limitation of Liability)), and option: 

(a) 	procure for you the right to continue using the infringing Software; 

(b) 	replace the infringing Software with non-infringing software of comparable function; 

(c) 	modify the infringing Software to be non-infringing; or 
	
(d) 	if none of the foregoing alternatives is available to QSS on commercially reasonable terms, terminate your right to the Software, but only to the extent necessary to avoid or mitigate Damages. You will have the right to terminate all of your rights if you determine, in your commercially reasonable judgment, that such partial termination renders your remaining rights ineffective. Subject to the limitations of Section 15 (Limitation of Liability), upon such full or partial termination, QSS will refund to you, pro-rata to the extent of such termination, the license fees paid by you pursuant to this License that are associated with the terminated rights. 

SECTION 14.6 (INDEMNITY AND EXCLUSIONS) AND THIS SECTION 14.7 (REMEDIES FOR INDEMNIFIED CLAIMS) STATE YOUR EXCLUSIVE REMEDIES FOR INFRINGEMENT AND/OR MISAPPROPRIATION BY THE SOFTWARE.

14.8  	NO OTHER WARRANTIES. 

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS SECTION 14 (LIMITED WARRANTIES), AND TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE SOFTWARE LICENSED AND ANY SERVICES OR HARDWARE PROVIDED UNDER THIS QNX COMMERCIAL SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS AND CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT AND TITLE. SUBJECT TO THE LIMITED WARRANTY IN SECTION 14.3 (LIMITED WARRANTY OF PERFORMANCE), QSS DOES NOT WARRANT AND NOTHING IN THIS LICENSE IMPLIES ANY WARRANTY THAT THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE AND/OR HARDWARE, OR ACCESS TO SERVICES, WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED OR ERROR FREE, OR THAT ANY ERRORS FOUND WILL BE CORRECTED.

14.9	SURVIVAL.   This Section 14 (Limited Warranties) will survive the termination of this License for any reason and will apply notwithstanding the failure of essential purpose of any limited remedy.


15.  LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.  

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL QSS AND/OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES BE LIABLE TO YOU OR TO ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, PUNITIVE OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST REVENUE, LOST OR DAMAGED DATA, OR OTHER COMMERCIAL OR ECONOMIC LOSS, ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE, HARDWARE AND/OR SERVICES, EVEN IF QSS HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE OR CLAIM. 

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL THE AGGREGATE LIABILITY OF QSS AND/OR ITS REPRESENTATIVES TO YOU OR TO ANY THIRD PARTY FOR ANY DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS LICENSE, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT, OR OTHERWISE, EXCEED THE TOTAL FEES YOU HAVE PAID TO QSS PURSUANT TO THIS LICENSE FOR USE OF THE SOFTWARE AND HARDWARE, AND FOR SERVICES, IN THE 12 MONTHS PRECEDING THE CLAIM. THIS SECTION 15 (LIMITATION OF LIABILITY) WILL SURVIVE THE TERMINATION OF THIS LICENSE FOR ANY REASON AND WILL APPLY NOTWITHSTANDING THE FAILURE OF ESSENTIAL PURPOSE OF ANY LIMITED REMEDY.

YOU ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT THE DISCLAIMERS, EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS SET FORTH IN THIS LICENSE CONSTITUTE AN ESSENTIAL ELEMENT OF THIS LICENSE IN THE ABSENCE OF WHICH: (A) THE FEES AND OTHER TERMS IN THIS LICENSE WOULD BE SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT; AND (B) QSS'S ABILITY TO OFFER AND YOUR ABILITY TO PURCHASE THE SOFTWARE AND SERVICES OR ANY PORTION THEREOF UNDER THIS LICENSE WOULD BE IMPAIRED.


16. THIRD PARTY LICENSES.   Certain Runtime Components may enable Target Systems to produce or reproduce (including but not limited to by ripping), copy, perform and/or display multimedia content (e.g., audio, images, video). The required intellectual property license rights necessary to use or offer devices with such capabilities will vary, depending on factors such as the intended use of the device, the types of content involved, the markets in which the device is used or sold, etc. You are solely responsible for determining all such requirements and making all of the arrangements (e.g., obtaining licenses, paying copyright collectives' fees, limiting the device functionality in some markets, etc.) necessary to make, use, import, distribute and/or sell your Target Systems, and/or to offer related services (to the extent permitted by the terms and conditions of this License), in all of your direct or indirect markets. The provisions of Section 14.6 (Indemnity and Exclusions) do not extend to infringement caused by producing, reproducing, copying, performing or displaying any multimedia content. Further, you agree to indemnify and hold QSS and/or its Representatives harmless from all Damages, and any reasonable costs and expenses incurred (including but not limited to reasonable lawyers' fees and disbursements) and Damages relating to any third-party action against QSS and/or its Representatives based on intellectual property infringement caused by making, using, importing, distributing and/or selling Target Systems, and/or offering related services, in any of your direct or indirect markets ("Claims"), other than Claims based solely on infringement claims for which QSS remains responsible under Section 14.6 (Indemnity and Exclusions). 


17.  TERM, SUBSCRIPTION RENEWAL & TERMINATION. 

17.1 	TERM, SUBSCRIPTION RENEWAL.   The term of this License for paid-up Software licenses will continue until terminated in accordance with this Section 17 (Term, Subscription Renewal & Termination). The term of this License for Software subscription licenses and Standard Support subscriptions will end when the subscription term ends. You can renew Software and Standard Support subscriptions by issuing corresponding purchase orders to QSS at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date (see your Development License Certificate(s) for Software and Project License subscriptions, and Section A-4 (Standard Support Subscription Term) of Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum) for Standard Support subscriptions).

17.2 	TERMINATION.   This License will terminate immediately for subscription-based licenses or services upon the expiration of your License Key or Floating License Key or expiration of your subscription as defined in your Development License Certificate, or your failure to pay any optional renewal fees when due. Either party may terminate this License upon fifteen (15) days’ prior notice to the other party of a breach of a material term of this License if the breach has not been cured within the notice period, with the exception of payment or breach of confidentiality provisions, in which case termination will be immediate. Termination is without prejudice to any right or remedy that may have accrued or be accruing to either party prior to termination.

17.3 	IMPLICATIONS OF TERMINATION.   Upon termination of this License, you will immediately destroy the original and all whole or partial copies of the Software, License Keys, Floating License Keys and Development License Certificates used under this License that are in your possession or control. Termination will not relieve you from your obligation to pay QSS any and all fees or other amounts due under this License at any time or for any period. Any Software or Standard Support subscription fees, or pre-payment of Software royalties or license fees are non-refundable. If either party terminates this License for any reason all copies of Runtime Configurations distributed pursuant to Schedule C (Runtime Distribution Addendum) prior to termination in accordance with the terms of this License will continue; however, all of your license rights, and those of your Affiliates, any Contractors and your distributors, will immediately cease upon termination. The provisions of this License that are expressed or by their sense and context are intended to survive the termination of this License will survive, including but not limited to Sections 1 (Definitions), 5 (Deployment of Software), 6 (Prohibited Activities), 7 (Preservation of Rights), 8 (Third Party Restrictions), 9 (Ownership and Reservation of Rights), 10 (Feedback), 11 (U.S. Government Rights), 13 (Confidential Information), 14 (Limited Warranties), 15 (Limitation of Liability), 16 (Third Party Licenses), 17 (Term, Subscription Renewal & Termination), 18 (Patent Non-assert), 19 (Governing Law), 20 (Assignment), 22 (Entire Agreement/Modifications), 23 (Interpretation), 24 (Notice), B-7 (Audits of Software Use), C-3 (Third-Party License Supplements), C-4 (High Risk), C-5 (Subcontractors & Distributors), C-8 (Target System Support), C-9 (Compliance with Laws), C-10 (Preservation of Rights), C-11 (Indemnity), and C-12 (Records & Audits). Termination is without prejudice to any right or remedy that may have accrued, or be accruing to either Party prior to termination. 


18.  PATENT NON-ASSERT.   You agree that you will not, and will not assist, permit or enable any other party to, use Software Source Code or any other QSS Confidential Information, or any part thereof for the purpose of: 

(a) 	preparing, filing, amending, modifying or prosecuting any patent applications, 

(b) 	evidencing any alleged, suspected or claimed infringement of intellectual property rights, and/or 

(c) 	mapping or reviewing any product, service, technology, architecture or specification against patents, patent applications, claim charts or similar material.

Further, you also agree that you will not, and will not assist, permit or enable any other party to: 

(i) 	assert or threaten to assert during the term of this License any patent, or 

(ii) 	assert or threaten to assert at any time any patent that was developed, in whole or in part, based upon or using the Software Source Code or any other QSS Confidential Information, or any part thereof, 

against QSS or its Affiliates, or their resellers, distributors and channel partners, manufacturers, repair facilities or end users to the extent that any patents are directly or indirectly infringed by the making (and/or having made), using (and/or having used), fielding (and/or having fielded), designing (and/or having designed), packaging (and/or having packaged), testing (and/or having tested), assembling (and/or having assembled), and/or otherwise disposing of (and/or having disposed) any QSS or QSS Affiliate product or QSS or QSS Affiliate service for the full-life of such patents. 

All obligations contained in this Section 18 (Patent Non-assert) shall encumber and run with applicable patents, if any, and shall be binding on any successors-in-interest or assigns thereof.  Any attempted assignment or grant in contravention to this Section 18 (Patent Non-assert) shall be null and void.


19.  GOVERNING LAW.   This License will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws in force in the Province of Ontario, Canada, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof. The parties hereby agree to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the Province of Ontario. The parties hereby irrevocably waive: 

(a) 	the provisions of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods, and 

(b) 	any right to a trial by jury regarding the resolution of any dispute between the parties hereto arising out of or in connection with this License. 


20.  ASSIGNMENT.   Subject to the export restrictions in Section 6(e) and terms and conditions set forth in Schedule B (QNX Middleware Addendum), you may assign this QNX Commercial Software License Agreement to a third party provided you first: 

(a) 	provide QSS with written acknowledgement of the assignee's acceptance of the terms and conditions of this License, 

(b) 	transfer the corresponding License Keys, Development License Certificates and any Runtime License Certificates to the assignee; and 

(c) 	comply with the requirements of Section 13.8 (Return of Confidential Information). 

You may not separately assign or transfer License Keys, Development License Certificates or Runtime License Certificates, except as provided in Section 5.1 (Deployment of Software).Any other attempted assignment or delegation in violation of the foregoing will be void and of no effect. This License will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties and their respective successors and permitted assigns. 


21.  EXECUTION AND ACCEPTANCE.   Nothing but this License (or any other written agreement between you and QSS) authorizes you to undertake any of the activities described in this License, and doing so in contravention of these terms and conditions constitutes breach of contract, and/or copyright or patent infringement. When you enter your License Key or Floating License Key to unlock the Software this License will be displayed for your review and acceptance. Choosing "I ACCEPT" during that process constitutes your execution and acceptance of this License, and the first date of such acceptance is the "Effective Date" for the purpose of this License.  


22.  ENTIRE AGREEMENT/MODIFICATIONS.   This License, including but not limited to the License Guide and Third Party Terms List, the Invoice accompanying the Software, the corresponding Development License Certificate(s), Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum), Schedule B (QNX Middleware Addendum), Schedule C (Runtime Distribution Addendum) and any Runtime License Certificates, constitutes the entire agreement between the parties pertaining to this subject matter and cancels and supersedes any prior or contemporaneous discussion, correspondence, statement, representation, negotiation, understanding, undertaking or agreement dealing with the same subject matter. The provisions of this QNX Commercial Software License Agreement will prevail in the event of a conflict between any of its terms and conditions and the provisions of the License Guide or Third Party Terms List, or any inconsistent or additional terms or conditions of any related purchase orders or invoices. No amendment, modification or waiver of any part of this License will be binding unless in a written document that expressly refers to this License and that is signed by authorized signatories of both parties. 


23.  INTERPRETATION.   The divisions and headings in this License have been included for convenience only and will not affect its construction or interpretation. Any provision of this License that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction will, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof or affecting the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction.


24.  NOTICE.   All notices required or permitted to be given under this License shall be in writing and shall be delivered: 

(a) 	to QSS by mail or courier to the attention of the "Legal Department" at the address at the beginning of this License, with a copy by email to licensing@qnx.com, and 

(b) 	to you by sending a copy to the address (including but not limited to your email address) that you provided for delivery of your Development License Certificate(s) and/or the address you provided for your myQNX.com registration.


25.  CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE.   QSS may contact you to ask about your impressions of the Software, the QNX Product Portfolio, myQNX.com, Foundry27, and/or any services you may have purchased. You are not obligated to provide any answers, but we hope you will give us the opportunity to address any shortcomings you perceive by providing your feedback.


26.  LANGUAGE.   This License has been drafted in the English language at the express request of the parties.  Les parties conviennent que la présente convention et tous les documents s'y rattachant soient rédigés en anglais.

(C) 2014 QNX Software Systems Limited. All rights reserved. QNX, Momentics, Neutrino, Aviage, QNX CAR are trademarks of BlackBerry Limited, which are registered trademarks and/or used in certain jurisdictions, and used under license by QNX Software Systems Limited. All other trademarks belong to their respective owners.

Document Version: CSLA.v013.Feb13-14

_____________________________________

SCHEDULE A: STANDARD SUPPORT ADDENDUM
_____________________________________


A-0.   BACKGROUND.   This Schedule A: Standard Support Addendum ("Schedule A"), together with the other terms and conditions of this QNX Commercial Software License Agreement, provides the terms and conditions upon which QSS will provide you with the maintenance and support services described below ("Standard Support") for the Software. Schedule A is incorporated into the QNX Commercial Software License Agreement. All defined terms in other parts of this License will have the same meanings in this Schedule A.


A-1.  SUBSCRIPTION.   Your Standard Support subscription applies to the Software, subject to your payment when due of all applicable Standard Support subscription fees specified for the first subscription year on your Software Invoice and subsequently on corresponding subscription renewal invoices ("Standard Support Invoices"). Standard Support subscriptions: 

(a) 	are Development Seat and product-specific, 

(b) 	may not be renewed once expired, and 

(c) 	are included in the annual fees for Software licensed on a subscription basis. 


A-2.  SERVICES.   During your Standard Support subscription QSS will provide you with "Help-Desk Services" for the current version of the Commercially Released Software, that qualifies for “Full” support in the applicable “Support Provided” column in the License Guide, by delivering web-based assistance with: 

(a) 	installation and configuration issues, 

(b) 	understanding the functionality and behavior of specific parts, 

(c) 	isolating problems you encounter by verifying whether or not they are Errors, 

(d) 	providing you with work-arounds for known Errors, and 

(e) 	submitting problem reports for confirmed Errors that do not have current solutions. 

You may report and track your issues at Tech Support on the QNX support portal. Help Desk Services are for your support and are not to be used for the benefit of other developers who do not have valid Standard Support subscriptions. QSS reserves the right to publish information (including but not limited to work-arounds and fixes) relating to any issues you report for the benefit of the QNX development community, provided it does not include any details that would identify you or your customers. 


A-3.  UPDATES.   During your Standard Support subscription QSS will provide you with access to Updates for use under the terms and conditions of this License, if the Update is made available without a new end user license agreement, and corresponding License Guide and Third Party Terms List, or under any new end user license agreement terms and conditions that are provided with the Update. 

A-3.1	GENERAL.   For the purpose of this License, Updates: 

(a) 	may only be used if they are first made available before you purchased the applicable Development License Certificate or during your corresponding Standard Support subscription, 

(b) 	may not be shared with any other persons, unless they are entitled to use them under their own QSS license, 

(c) 	do not include any major Software releases (e.g., QNX 4 to QNX 6), 

(d) 	do not include unlicensed QNX Product Portfolio components or technologies (e.g., the availability of Experimental Software will not entitle you to free Commercially Released Software versions if additional license fees apply), and 

(e) 	do not include any new components, technologies or features that require QSS to pay additional third party fees.

A-3.2	DEVELOPMENT.   In addition, for the purpose of your development license (see Section 2 (Development License)), Updates may only be used on Development Seats for which corresponding Standard Support fees have been paid. 

A-3.3	DISTRIBUTION.   In addition, for the purpose of any distribution license (see Section C-2 (Distribution License) of Schedule C (Runtime Distribution Addendum)), Updates: 

(a) 	may only be included if you maintained continuous subscriptions to Standard Support for the applicable Software that entitled you to receive and use Updates for each active Development Seat used for Target System development, integration testing, maintenance, support and enhancement; 

(b) 	may only be used in association with licensed Target Systems; 

(c) 	do not include features that were formerly offered by QSS in separate royalty-bearing Runtime Components but that are now bundled into a single Runtime Component that have a greater list price; and 

(d) 	do not include any new components, technologies or features that are only offered by QSS for distribution as extra-cost options.


A-4.  STANDARD SUPPORT SUBSCRIPTION TERM.   Each subscription is valid for Standard Support services for one Development Seat for one year. Your subscription will end on the anniversary of the first day of the month following the date of your original Standard Support Invoice, unless you first renew your subscription by delivering a purchase order to QSS for the applicable Standard Support fee(s) for the next subscription year at least thirty (30) days prior to the expiry date. All subscription fees are due in advance and are non-refundable. QSS reserves the right to withhold Standard Support if you have not paid your subscription fees, and to cease to provide Standard Support for the Software upon twelve (12) months prior notice.

See the QNX Standard Support User's Guide http://www.qnx.com/support/support.html for further information.  Other support and custom engineering services are also available from QSS but are not covered under this License.  Contact an authorized QNX sales representative for more information (see http://www.qnx.com/company/contact/) about these other services agreements. This License supplements and does not supersede such agreements. 

___________________________________

SCHEDULE B: QNX MIDDLEWARE ADDENDUM
___________________________________


B-0.  BACKGROUND.   This Schedule B: QNX Middleware Addendum ("Schedule B"), together with the other terms and conditions of this QNX Commercial Software License Agreement, provide the terms and conditions upon which QSS authorizes you to use Software that is QNX Middleware for commercial development purposes, provided that you first obtain a corresponding development license. Your QNX Middleware product entitlement is defined by the Development License Certificate you are issued by QSS or one of its authorized distributors. This Schedule B is incorporated into the QNX Commercial Software License Agreement. All defined terms in other parts of this License will have the same meanings in this Schedule B. The provisions of this Schedule B will prevail in the event of a conflict between any of its provisions and other parts of this License.


B-1.  QNX MIDDLEWARE SOFTWARE.   Your commercial license under this Schedule B only extends to the specific QNX Middleware product(s) identified in the corresponding Development License Certificate you have been issued and only includes Updates thereto that QSS may, in its sole discretion, make available to you for use under this License (collectively, the "QNX Middleware Software", and part of the "Software" for the purpose of this License). The QNX Middleware Software is further described in the corresponding License Guide.  

The QNX SDP, as well as the QNX SDK for Apps and Media and QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment QNX Middleware products, are related in that they have dependencies on each other. As illustrated in the License Guide, the QNX SDK for Apps and Media is dependent on the QNX Neutrino RTOS contained in the QNX SDP. The QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment is dependent on both the QNX SDP and QNX SDK for Apps and Media. As set forth in the License Guide, QSS licenses the QNX Acoustics Products for the QNX Neutrino RTOS and also for other operating systems, digital signal processors or other low cost processors that may not contain an operating system. If you are licensing one or more of the QNX Acoustics Product(s) for a QNX Neutrino RTOS based-system then this License applies to you.  If not, then you need to refer to the appropriate agreement (contact licensing@qnx.com).

 
B-2.  DEVELOPMENT LICENSE GRANT AND CONSIDERATION.   Subject to your payment when due of all applicable license fees (including but not limited to renewal fees for any subscription-based licenses) specified on the Invoice for the QNX Middleware Software development license you have purchased, and subject to the terms and conditions of this License, QSS hereby grants to you a limited, non-exclusive, personal, non-sublicensable, non-transferable (except as contemplated in Section 20 (Assignment) as modified by Section B-8 (Assignment) below) and indivisible license for the QNX Middleware Software on the same terms and conditions specified in this License, except as modified by this Schedule B. Your QNX Middleware Software license is conditional on you having and maintaining (i.e., paying the annual Support Services fees) valid commercial QNX SDP licenses for all active developers involved in your development projects. Any license rights to Updates that QSS may make available to you as part of your QNX Middleware Software License are conditional upon your acceptance of any additional license terms and conditions (by way of further written amendment or new agreement), third party licensing prerequisites and the associated License Guide and the corresponding Third Party Terms List.   Any Update provided that is not Commercially Released Software will be considered Experimental Software for the purpose of this License, including but not limited to, Section 14.2 (Experimental Software) of the License.

Some of the QNX SDK for Apps and Media and QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment components contain third party technologies that require you to have your own direct license agreements in place before and for so long as QSS delivers and licenses such technologies to you ("supplementary QNX Middleware components", which include without limitation the Apple iPod Interface and QNX multimedia codec for Microsoft WMA9 - see the License Guide for more details). Some of these supplementary QNX Middleware component licensors require QSS to obtain positive proof that you have the requisite licenses in place. You represent and warrant to QSS that you and all of your authorized Contractors and Affiliates who will receive supplementary QNX Middleware component(s) are entitled pursuant to valid third party license agreements ("Prerequisite License(s)") to receive the supplementary QNX Middleware components. You acknowledge and agree that all license rights granted by QSS to you under this License to such QNX Middleware components will terminate upon termination or expiry of the corresponding Prerequisite License(s) and that you and/or your applicable Contractors and Affiliates will immediately advise QSS in writing of such termination or expiry. Upon QSS’s written request from time to time during the term of this Agreement, you agree to provide QSS with reasonable written assurances, from an authorized signing authority, confirming the existence and good standing of such third party licenses.  

B-3.  QNX CAR PLATFORM FOR INFOTAINMENT - SUBSCRIPTION LICENSE.   The license for QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment is a subscription-based development license granted pursuant to the terms and conditions of this License for the term of your subscription set forth in your Development License Certificate.  It is limited to use of QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment only in association with custom hardware platforms derived from the Reference Platforms for the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment (as defined in the License Guide) and solely for your QNX-based automotive development projects (or other QNX-based vertical market-specific development projects authorized by QSS in writing).  As part of the subscription license to the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment, you are also entitled to use the QNX Aviage Acoustics Processing Kit 2.0 QNX Middleware Software ("QNX AAP Kit") for development purposes. Notwithstanding the terms and conditions that apply to the QNX Acoustics Products, including without limitation Section B-4 (QNX Acoustics Products - Project License), the terms and conditions in this License applicable to the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment apply to the QNX AAP Kit provided as part of your QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment subscription.

QSS may provide you with access to QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment reference images containing the Runtime Components of the QNX SDP, QNX SDK for Apps and Media and QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment (each, a “Reference Image") on hardware, loaded on an SD card or online at a secure site for download.  The Reference Image is solely to enhance your evaluation of the applicable Software. As detailed in the License Guide, the Reference Image also contains 3rd Party Reference Applications and other 3rd Party Licensed Code and may invoke web-based services.  The 3rd Party Licensed Code may only be used on Reference Platforms for QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment during the first ninety (90) days of your QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment license and only for evaluation purposes and not for any broader purposes that may be authorized pursuant to other terms in this License.  All rights in the 3rd Party Licensed Code granted to you by QSS will terminate ninety (90) days after the start of your QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment subscription. As detailed in the License Guide, 3rd Party Reference Applications and other Software identified as 3rd Party Licensed Code must be licensed by you for commercial development directly from QSS’s third party ecosystem partners. This includes, without limitation, Reference Platform-specific audio or video codecs, any web-based services invoked by the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment, and any sample audio or video content provided.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any open source software contributions are subject to their respective open source licenses (and therefore are not time limited).

Unless earlier terminated under this License, this license ends when your subscription term ends as set forth in your applicable Development License Certificate subject to any renewal periods pursuant to Section 17.1 (Term, Subscription Renewal).


B-4.  QNX ACOUSTICS PRODUCTS - PROJECT LICENSE.   QNX Acoustics Products are licensed on a Project-specific basis. Multi-Project Development License Certificates may be available (contact an authorized QNX sales representative for more information see http://www.qnx.com/company/contact/).  Your QNX Acoustics Product QNX Middleware Software license is specific to a single Project and may not be transferred or reassigned to other projects. This QNX Middleware Software license ends when the Project for which it was purchased ends (or at the end of any subscription period in the case of a subscription-based license) unless earlier terminated under the terms of the License. 

B-5.  NO STANDARD SUPPORT.   You are required to purchase separate Custom support (as defined in the License Guide) for the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment QNX Middleware Software from the start  of your QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment subscription to at least the end of active development under your project(s) for which the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment is being used. You are also required to purchase separate Custom support for the QNX Acoustics Products.  Notwithstanding that the QNX Acoustics Products do not qualify for “Full” support in the applicable “Support Provided” column in the License Guide, the warranty pursuant to Section 14.3 (Limited Warranty of Performance) applies to the Commercially Released QNX Acoustics Products Software components that are identified as Type I Software in the License Guide.  Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum) does not apply to either of these QNX Middleware Software products. Custom support for QNX Middleware is not covered under this License but is provided for in different agreements; contact an authorized QNX sales representative for more information (see http://www.qnx.com/company/contact/). This License supplements and does not supersede such agreements. 

B-6.  DEPLOYMENT OF SOFTWARE.   For the purposes of this Schedule B, Section 5.1 (Deployment of Software) of this License does not apply to the QNX CAR Platform for Infotainment or the QNX Acoustics Products and is replaced by the following:

You may deploy your licensed QNX Middleware Software to the following persons provided they have purchased and/or been assigned Development Seats (and License Keys or Floating License Keys) for the QNX SDP in accordance with this License, but only to the extent and for so long as they provide software development services on your behalf (i) related to QNX-based automotive development projects (or other QNX-based vertical market-specific development projects authorized by QSS in writing) for QNX CAR for Infotainment; or (ii) for the licensed Project for QNX Acoustics Products: 

(a) 	your employees, 

(b) 	your Affiliates for use by their employees, and 

(c) 	your Contractors, and/or your Affiliates' Contractors, for use by their employees, but only to the extent and for so long as they provide software development services on your behalf (or on your Affiliates' behalf). 

B-7.  AUDITS OF SOFTWARE USE.  QSS may request reports and conduct audits pursuant to the provisions of Sections 5.4 (Audits of Software Use) to Section 5.6 of this License in order to confirm compliance with the terms and conditions of this License. If you have licensed QNX Acoustics Products for more than one Project, you must identify all Projects in all reports and audits requested pursuant to this License. 

B-8.   ASSIGNMENT.  This License may be assigned pursuant to Section 20 (Assignment) in respect of QNX Middleware products, but only to third parties in conjunction with a change of ownership, merger, acquisition, sale or transfer of all or substantially all of your business or assets relating to the Project(s) for which the QNX Middleware products are specifically licensed.  In addition to the requirements set out in Section 20 (Assignment), any assignee(s) will be required to provide QSS, in advance of an assignment, with reasonable written assurances, from an authorized signing authority, confirming the existence and good standing of all applicable prerequisite third party licenses.  

________________________________________

SCHEDULE C: RUNTIME DISTRIBUTION ADDENDUM 
_________________________________________   

C-0.  BACKGROUND.   This Schedule C: Runtime Distribution Addendum ("Schedule C"), together with the other terms and conditions of this QNX Commercial Software License Agreement, provides the terms and conditions upon which QSS authorizes you to distribute copies of certain Runtime Components as part of your Target System, provided that you first purchase corresponding Runtime License Certificate(s) (as defined below) for the number of copies of the Runtime Configuration you require, and sign and return copies of each Runtime License Certificate to QSS. YOU HAVE NO RIGHTS OR OBLIGATIONS UNDER THIS SCHEDULE C UNLESS AND UNTIL YOU PURCHASE AND RETURN SIGNED COPIES OF RUNTIME LICENSE CERTIFICATES. This Schedule C, and all signed and returned Runtime License Certificates, are incorporated into the QNX Commercial Software License Agreement. All defined terms in other parts of this License will have the same meanings in this Schedule C. The provisions of this Schedule C will prevail in the event of a conflict between any of its provisions and other parts of this License. 


C-1.  DEFINITIONS.   The following defined terms are added to this Schedule C and will have the same meanings throughout this Schedule.

"EULA" means a properly completed version of the sample QNX End User License Agreement provided in Appendix I (Form of QNX Pass-through EULA for Target Systems) of this Schedule C.

"Invoice" will include for the purpose of this Schedule C any invoice issued by QSS (or its distributor) for Runtime License Certificates you have purchased. 

"Runtime Configuration" means a specific set of Runtime Components identified in a Runtime License Certificate.

"Runtime License Certificate" means a uniquely serialized certificate issued by QSS that is provided to you in hard copy or in electronic form by QSS or by one of its authorized distributors, or pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.1 (Deployment of Software) or Section 20 (Assignment), that authorizes the creation of a specific number of copies of the Runtime Configuration identified therein.


C-2.  DISTRIBUTION LICENSE.   Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, and your payment when due of all applicable license fees specified on QSS's (or its authorized distributor's) invoice for the Runtime License Certificate(s) you have purchased ("Runtime License Certificate Invoice", which is hereby incorporated into this License), QSS hereby grants to you a limited, non-exclusive, personal, non-sublicenseable, non-transferable (except as contemplated in Section 20 (Assignment)) and indivisible license for the following specific activities and purposes to:

(a) 	reproduce, as an integral part of or solely for use in Target Systems, up to the aggregate total number of copies of Runtime Configurations expressly authorized by your Runtime License Certificate(s), for the purpose of manufacturing and distributing Target Systems. Note that some Target Systems may require more than one Runtime Configuration license (e.g., Target Systems may contain multiple processors, each running a separate copy of the same Runtime Configuration or different Runtime Configurations);

(b) 	reproduce, as part of the Target System backup media (if any), to be shipped with the Target System, a second copy of the Runtime Configuration for each copy authorized under Section C-2(a) solely for use for Target System back-up purposes (i.e., not for productive use, such as in a redundant system);

(c) 	distribute Runtime Configuration copies made under Sections C-2(a) and C-2(b) directly or indirectly to end users as part of and only for use in association with your Target System under the terms and conditions of the EULA; and

(d) 	adopt and reproduce (as provided in Sections C-2(a) and C-2(b)), and to distribute (as provided in C-2(c), or pursuant to secure downloads, only to authorized end users for use in licensed Target Systems) object code copies of: (i) Patches, solely for the purpose of adopting Error corrections for use in new and existing Target Systems; and (ii) Updates, to the extent permitted pursuant to Section A-3 (Updates) of Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum).

In addition to the Prohibited Activities set forth in Section 6 of the License, you are not authorized to distribute any Software in Source Code form, except for the HTML, JavaScript, CSS, Shell script, Python and WebGL code and open source software contributions (see section C-3(b) (Third-Party License Supplements)), that form part of your Runtime Configuration. 

YOUR SOFTWARE DISTRIBUTION RIGHTS UNDER THIS SCHEDULE C ARE LIMITED TO THE NUMBER OF COPIES OF RUNTIME CONFIGURATION SOFTWARE COMPONENTS EXPRESSLY AUTHORIZED BY RUNTIME LICENSE CERTIFICATES YOU HAVE PREPURCHASED DIRECTLY FROM QSS OR ITS AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR. 


C-3.  THIRD-PARTY LICENSE SUPPLEMENTS.   Certain Runtime Components have additional distribution terms and conditions due to pass-through requirements imposed by: (a) third party proprietary technologies they contain, which terms and conditions are reproduced on the Runtime License Certificate (copies of which may be obtained at http://licensing.qnx.com); and (b) open source software contributions they contain (see Section 8 (Third Party Restrictions) for details). Those terms and conditions are hereby incorporated into this License, as applicable.


C-4.  HIGH RISK.   You may not use, or authorize others to use, any part of the Software in any application in which the failure of the Software could lead to death, personal injury or severe physical or property damage ("High-Risk Applications"), including but not limited to the monitoring, operation or control of nuclear facilities, mass transit systems, aircraft navigation or aircraft communication systems, air traffic control, weapon systems and direct life support machines. QSS expressly disclaims any express or implied warranty or condition of fitness for High-Risk Applications.

C-5.  SUBCONTRACTORS & DISTRIBUTORS.   Provided that you will remain responsible to QSS at all times for the full performance of and compliance with all terms and conditions of this QNX Commercial Software License Agreement, including but not limited to those of this Schedule C, you may: (i) authorize subcontractors who have been retained by you to manufacture Target Systems on your behalf to exercise your rights under Section C-2(a), C-2(b) and C-2(d) on your behalf, and (ii) sublicense your rights under Section C-2(c) to third party distributors in your indirect distribution channel. All acts or omissions of your subcontractors and distributors in relation to the terms and conditions of this License will be deemed to be your acts or omissions.


C-6.  EULA.   You must ensure that end users are presented with a properly completed version of the EULA, as provided in Exhibit 1 of this Schedule C, in a manner that follows the formalities necessary to make the terms and conditions enforceable under local laws for the countries in which the end users accepting the EULA reside.


C-7.  LICENSE TAGS.   Optional serialized electronic tags ("License Tag") in the form of PDF/CSV/text files are available from QSS when ordering Runtime License Certificates (one serialized license tag for each Runtime Configuration copy authorized by the Runtime License Certificate) to authenticate Target Systems and to facilitate the tracking and identification of deployed copies of Runtime Components. Each License Tag authenticates a copy of the Runtime Configuration as having been created under this License and authorizes use of that copy on one processor within a Target System. A separate License Tag is required for each copy of each Runtime Configuration to be used in each Target System. License Tags are specific to particular Software releases and Target System.


C-8.  TARGET SYSTEM SUPPORT.   You are responsible for all Target System design, development, testing, distribution, support, maintenance and updating. QSS offers Standard Support (see Schedule A (Standard Support Addendum)) and other Software support and custom engineering services (see http://licensing.qnx.com/services/).


C-9.  COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.   You will comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations and obtain all permits, licenses and authorizations or certificates that may be required in connection with its activities pursuant to this License, including without limitation any import or export licenses required pursuant to Section 6(e).


C-10.  PRESERVATION OF RIGHTS.   When distributing Target Systems and associated Runtime Components to any agency, department or unit of any government or quasi-government authority you will take all actions and precautions consistent with applicable laws and regulations specifically governing licensing to such entities to preserve and protect all ownership and other rights of QSS and its licensors in the Software.


C-11.  INDEMNITY.  

C-11.1 If a claim is brought against QSS and/or its Representatives for Damages relating to bodily injury, death, property damage or any other injury, damage or claim arising out of the development, marketing, distribution, sale, use or inability to use or receive services for Target Systems (any one or more, "Target System Claims"), then you agree to defend QSS and/or its Representatives against such Target System Claims, and to indemnify and hold QSS and/or its Representatives harmless from resulting Damages and reasonable costs and expenses incurred (including but not limited to reasonable lawyers' fees and disbursements). QSS and/or its Representatives will: 

(a) 	promptly notify you in writing of such Target System Claims, 

(b) 	subject to Section C-11.2, provide you with sole control of the defence and/or settlement thereof, 

(c) 	furnish to you on request all relevant information in their possession or control for such defense, 

(d) 	cooperate with and provide such assistance, at your expense, to you in the defense of such Target System Claims as reasonably requested by you, and 

(e) 	not admit any such Target System Claims and/or make any payments with respect to such Target System Claims without your prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. This Section C-11.1 will not apply to any claims under Section 14.6 (Indemnity and Exclusions) that QSS is obliged to defend, or to any final award of a court of competent jurisdiction based on a finding of wilful misconduct or fraud of QSS.

C-11.2 Notwithstanding your right in Section C-11.1 to have sole control over the defence and/or settlement of Claims: 

(a) 	QSS and/or its Representatives may take all steps necessary, at your expense, to defend themselves until you assign competent counsel and initiate a defence of the action, or 

(b) 	if the Target System Claim asserts that a QSS and/or its Representatives deliverable or service has caused Damages, then QSS and/or its Representative may, at their option and expense, but without absolving you of any of your indemnity obligations under Section C-11, have sole control over QSS's and its Representatives' own defence and/or settlement, in which case you will: (i) furnish to QSS and/or its Representative on request all relevant information in your possession or control for such defence, and (ii) cooperate with and provide, at your own expense, such assistance to QSS and/or its Representative in the defense of such Target System Claims as reasonably requested by QSS and/or its Representative. QSS will not admit any such Target System Claims and/or make any payments with respect to such Target System Claims without your prior written consent, not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.


C-12.  RECORDS & AUDITS.  You will maintain for a period of six (6) years after the end of the year to which they relate accurate records regarding all of your direct and indirect copying and distribution activities conducted pursuant to this Schedule C. QSS may request reports and conduct audits pursuant to the provisions of Sections 5.4 (Audits of Software Use) to Section 5.6 of this License in order to confirm the number of copies of Software created (by Target System), the number of Target Systems shipped, and compliance with the terms and conditions of this License. If you have purchased Runtime License Certificates for more than one Runtime Configuration, you must also identify copies by Runtime Configuration in all reports and audits requested pursuant to Section 5 (Deployment of Software and Audits of Software Use) of this License.

______________________________________

APPENDIX I TO SCHEDULE C: FORM OF QNX
PASS-THROUGH EULA FOR TARGET SYSTEMS
_______________________________________

(C) 2014, QNX Software Systems Limited. All Rights Reserved. 

The product you have purchased ("Product") contains QNX software (Runtime Configuration No. [Insert applicable Runtime Configuration Number]; "QNX Software") which is distributed by or on behalf of the Product manufacturer ("Manufacturer") under license from QNX Software Systems Limited ("QSS"). You may only use the QNX Software in the Product and in compliance with the license terms below. 

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, QSS hereby grants you a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable, indivisible license to use the QNX Software in the Product for the purpose intended by the Manufacturer. If permitted by the Manufacturer, or by applicable law, you may make one backup copy of the QNX Software as part of the Product software. QSS and its licensors reserve all license rights not expressly granted herein, and retain all right, title and interest in and to all copies of the QNX Software, including but not limited to all intellectual property rights therein. You may not reproduce, distribute or transfer, or de-compile, disassemble or otherwise attempt to unbundle, reverse engineer, modify or create derivative works of, the QNX Software, except to the extent that QSS is expressly precluded by law from prohibiting these activities. You agree: (1) not to remove, cover or alter any proprietary notices, labels or marks in or on the QNX Software, and to ensure that all copies bear any notice contained on the original; and (2) not to import or export the Product or the QNX Software in contravention of applicable export control laws.

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, QSS AND ITS LICENSORS PROVIDE THE QNX SOFTWARE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. ANY WARRANTIES OR OTHER PROVISIONS OFFERED BY THE MANUFACTURER OR ITS DISTRIBUTOR(S) THAT DIFFER FROM THIS LICENSE ARE OFFERED BY THE MANUFACTURER OR ITS DISTRIBUTOR(S) ALONE AND NOT BY QSS, ITS AFFILIATES OR THEIR LICENSORS. YOU ASSUME ANY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH YOUR USE OF THE QNX SOFTWARE UNDER THIS LICENSE.

TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT WILL QSS, ITS AFFILIATES OR THEIR LICENSORS BE LIABLE TO YOU UNDER ANY LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER IN TORT (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE, FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER ARISING AS A RESULT OF THIS LICENSE OR OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PRODUCT (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, PRODUCT FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES), EVEN IF QSS, ITS AFFILIATES OR THEIR LICENSORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

For more information on the QNX Software, including but not limited to any open source software license terms (and available Source Code) as well as copyright attributions applicable to the Runtime Configuration indicated above, please contact the Manufacturer or contact QSS at 1001 Farrar Road, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K2K 0B3 (email: licensing@qnx.com, ph.: +1-613-591-0931, fax: +1-613-591-3579).
